# Prism

Propagation Simulator

A system for modeling worm propagation through computer networks.

## Compiling

To compile the application use the 'build.bat' script by navigating to the root
directory of this project (containing the build.bat script) and running the
command 'build' from the command prompt. This script will compile all of the
application source code, generate an executable Jar file, and then remove the
compiled byte code. The result will be an executable Jar file that completely
contains the application.

You will need a working installation of Java, and likely the developer kit. Java
8 or higher is likely fine. I'd be interested to know if this application works
properly with the OpenJDK if you end up using that (say on a Linux system).

## Launching

To run the application you'll need to execute the Jar file. You can let the
run.bat script handle this by once again navigating to the root directory of
this project (containing the run.bat script) and running the command 'run' from
the command prompt. This will launch the application.

When launching the application from an arbitrary location two folders will be
generated in the directory where you launched the application from. These two
folders should already exist in the project folder I provided, but if you feel
the need to run the Jar file somewhere else just note that two folders will be
generated. One is called 'networks' and it stores the output of random network
generation. The other is called 'simulations' and it stores the output of each
simulation.

## Operation

Operating the application is relatively simple. The GUI is divided into a panel
for network generation and a panel for simulation. Consider each panel to be a
completely separate user workflow.

To generate a network with the network panel first specify the type of network
that you'd like to generate and then provide the interface with the required
parameters for the given network type. Finally include a network title and click
the Generate Network button. This will result in a network being generated and
written to the aforementioned networks directory. A series of networks should
already exist within the networks folder as a part of this deliverable, but feel
free to generate more. The format of these network files conforms to the format
described in the assignment.

To run a simulation, first select the 'Browse' button in the simulation
interface and then provide the interface with a number of cures and a number of
worms. If the number for either of these values is 0 you won't be required to
provide the respective infection rate or cure rate, but do provide these values
for either worms or cures if their counts are greater than 0. Finally, click the
'Simulate' button for the simulation to begin.

You'll see a series of messages to the console. This is the simulation trace,
showing the current timestep, the number of stranded nodes, the number of
infected nodes, and the number of cured nodes in a comma-delimited format.

Two output files will be generated by the simulation step. One is the trace,
which isn't very user friendly but is intended for use in visualization programs.
This is a CSV storing the state of the simulation at the end of each timestep. I
used these trace files to visualize simulations in my report using Tableau
Desktop. The other output file is the log, which is a human-readable report of
every action taken at each timestep. It includes every infection and cure
attempt throughout the entire simulation. These files are always named
<Network Name>.log and <Network Name>.csv.

You should be able to run as many simulations as you'd like during a single
session of the application, but it is possible for it to get hung up in some
cases when running multiple simulations in one session. If this happens simply
close the application and run it again to continue executing simulations. This
shouldn't happen though, as I believe I've squashed all of the bugs. Enjoy!
